Israel has long used the Palestinian
territories as a testing ground for
weapons and surveillance technology now
Israeli media Reports say that's
extending to artificial
intelligence The Firm corite AI has
reportedly been involved in search and
rescue operations in Gaza in particular
its facial Rec recognition technology
has been applied to videos of captives
and Hamas Fighters another Israeli firm
say ra tracks online content perceived
as harmful mapping Pro Hamas influence
campaigns Anthony lowenstein's an
independent journalist and the author of
The Palestine laboratory a book on
Israel's arms and surveillance industry
he's in Sydney and joins us live from
there so first of all Anthony how is the
conflict in Gaza being used to develop
Israeli Cy what's called cyber offensive
technology in the industry
what's been happening in the last two
months and some ways really continues
what Israel has been doing for years
which is Gaza is a key testing ground as
you said for new weapons sometimes
deadly sometimes also just surveillance
so what we've seen in the last two
months is really a huge amounts of new
technology new particular drones
quadcopters so to speak which kind of
have been firing apparently weapons into
Palestinian areas including civilian
areas an AI driven Warfare now there's
been a lot of talk and hype around AI
Warfare Israel started doing this in
2014 they did it again in 2021 in other
rounds of their conflicts with Hamas and
this year it's really accelerated to the
point where both people I'm speaking to
and there was an amazing report in the
Israeli Outlet 972 a few weeks ago which
outlined the fact that really any
serious Rules of Engagement about
worrying about civilian casualties has
essentially being removed and the impact
of that was the AI system was processing
huge amounts of information and spitting
out massive amounts of targets those
targets often would deliberately be
known to contain civilians if they were
hit and we've seen the rate of Civilian
casualties is really unprecedented in
the Modern Age and what Israel's doing
by using this technology is obviously in
its war against Hamas it's being used to
try to impress Israeli audiences and
also Internationals to try to get
support for Israel's brutal war in Gaza
but it's also for foreign buyers now
Israel's not doing it solely for that
reason of course but as we've seen in
the last years as a document in my book
a key aspect of Israel's war making is
to basically Test new weapons in Gaza or
the west bank and then sell them to
various um countries afterwards so
almost certainly as I note in the
guardian there was a followup story to
that Israeli report last week which said
that a Us official was quoted as saying
the world is watching countries are
watching what Israel is doing and what
he didn't say but should have is that
they want to also have a piece of their
technology when this conflict is
over Anthony are we seeing the
Israeli cyber industry pivoting more and
developing more towards Ai and data
analysis after the scandals involving
hacking firms and Spy software such as
Pegasus the short answer is yes and no
let me briefly explain um Pegasus
obviously was a notorious spyware firm
which does still exist its NSO group is
the company though it's in financial
trouble but what's happened in the last
years is nso's star has decided has
fallen many other Israeli companies are
doing remarkably similar things so
essentially technology which allows a
country intelligence outfit or police
force to spy on your phone whether it's
an Android or iPhone so the technology
is very much still being used and sold
by large numbers of Israeli companies
but there's no doubt there was a recent
um Europe's largest national security
fair in in Paris a few weeks ago and
Israel had a lot of companies there even
though there's of course a war going on
in Gaza and a lot of those companies
were selling not particularly offensive
cyber such as Pegasus but surveillance
technology to be able to monitor various
amounts of people's phones social media
and interestingly a company called toer
to which is essentially a company that
allows a buyer to change video feeds so
you can imagine a institution or
government has a video feed of some
particular incident this allows this
technology allows that feed to be
changed to be altered which is a
remarkably dangerous and Powerful tool
so Israel is clearly getting in on this
and it's important to note that many of
the technologies that Israel is selling
The Architects and veterans are coming
from the IDF the Israeli military and
they're getting the experience firstly
when they work for the military working
under the occupation to try to surveil
Palestinians they take that experience
into the private sector while
maintaining close ties with the state so
yes these are private companies in name
but in fact as I showed in detail in the
book they're actually an extension of
the state because Israeli government
uses these companies as a way to promote
its
agenda all right thank you so much
Anthony Lowenstein
there thank you